# Statement of Work: Wild Wood Apartments

## History

Wild Wood Apartments has had a difficult time generating accurate revenue and expense reporting. Along with not being able to verify these reports, the reporting is based on a very time consuming and manual process. This process is currently completed by the apartment managers, who have complained that the process is difficult and time consuming. The managers are tenants, that are compensated with free rent and a stipend.

Creating a database for this company will provide the ability for the corporate headquarters to report on all locations with much more accuracy. It will also simplify the manual process the managers are currently performing.

## Scope

The Wild Wood Apartments database will allow the corporate headquarters to track and report on the financials of all of their complex locations.  The database will store all the apartment locations, each tenant who is currently renting a unit and each tenant who previously rented a unit for Wild Wood. In addition, the database will store all financial records, including revenue from rent and payments for expenses. Expenses will include repairs, replacements, and renovations.  The database will also track each manager of each the complex’s and what each manager is being compensated. Finally, the database will simplify the current manual process that exists when each of the managers documents their revenues and expenses.

## Objectives

•	Remove the current manually process by the complex managers.
•	Improve the accuracy and dependability of the financial reporting for each location.
•	Track each tenant’s current rental status and history
•	Track all revenue generated by each location
•	Track all expenses created by each location.

## Timelines

1.	Requirements gathering: will require reviewing the current process and interviewing employees in the corporate office and at each location.  
**Total Time**: 1 week . 
**Completed when**: documented the current state and responses from interviews
2.	Review the current data: will require reviewing the current state of the data to insure it can be converted into the database. Analyze of the current state may dictate the database design. Define the scope of data conversion with the business.
**Total Time**: 1 week . 
**Complete when**: a list of any data exceptions and/or business rules are documented. Agreements with the business as what data, if any, will be converted. 
3.	Normalization:  Create the data model with entities and relationships normalized.
**Total Time**: 1 week . 
**Completed when**: entity relation diagram is created
4.	Build the Physical Database: Translate the data model to a RDBMS. All tables, fields and constraints, including primary and foreign keys will be created. 
**Total Time**: 2 weeks . 
**Completed when**: Database schema is ready for review
5.	Testing and Security: Generate test data for testing of reporting and any applications needed for input. Ensure the database is only available to specific users.
**Total Time**: 2 weeks . 
**Completed when**: Successful test results are documented.
6.	Database Installation: clean out any test data and ensure the database configuration is production ready. This will include moving to a production environment and testing all the appropriate connections at each location.
**Total Time**: 2 weeks . 
**Completed when**: database is production operational

**Total Time**: 9 weeks
